MOONopoly is a board game played by 2-4 players.
The aim of the game is to colonize the Moon by buying as many properties (valleys, mountains, cliffs, craters, etc.) as you can.
The more property you own, the more rent you will have the chance to collect.
Type of individual players (human or computer/AI) is selected at the beginning of each game.
The game takes place on the Moon surface, which is represented by a rectangular board, divided into properties
and various action fields.
Players are (generally) moving on the board in the clockwise direction by a distance determined by the dice throw.
Each player starts with the same amount of money that is expressed in a Lunar currency fi (dim).
Last player with a positive balance after all the other players have gone bankrupt wins the game.

When it's your turn, you can throw the dice by tapping (or swiping over and releasing) the THROW DICE button. 
Then, when the dice is focused on the screen, tap anywhere on it to drop it to the Moon surface.
Afterwards, you move forward as determined by the dice.

LUNAR PROPERTIES
If you land on an unowned property, you can buy it, provided you have enough money.
If the property is already owned by another player, you have to pay the rent to that player.
The height of the rent depends on how much the property has been developed.

SPACE DEBRIS and DUST CLOUDS
If you encounter a space debris or navigate into a dust cloud, a random event occurs from which you might earn
or lose some dims.

IRON MINES
Iron mines are a special kind of properties that you can not develop by building habitats or settlement domes.
The rent depends on how many iron mines are owned by the player.

OIL RIGS
Like iron mines, you can not develop oil rigs by building habitats or settlement domes.
The rent depends on how many oil rigs are owned by the owner as well as the number that a player has thrown
when he landed on another player's oil rig.

START
When moving to or passing by the Start field, a player receives fi200 from the Lunar bank.

LUNAR ECOLOGY and ENERGY TAX
Player landing on one of the two tax fields has to pay the tax to the Lunar bank.

FREE DOCKING
Time to relax while nothing extraordinary happens. 

QUARANTINE
When landing on this field, just a routine check-up is performed and the game continues without delay.

GO TO QUARANTINE
The player landing on this field is immediately transported to the quarantine. While in quarantine, the player
is still allowed to collect rent, however he can not leave the quarantine until either he throws a six with the dice
or bribes the guard by paying 50 dims. If, after three moves, a six has still not been thrown, the player is forced
to pay the aforementioned price to leave the quarantine.

ENDING YOUR TURN
When all the required actions on the destination field have been executed, the player can end his turn by tapping 
(or swiping over and releasing) the END TURN button, thereby allowing the next player to throw the dice for his move.

PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
Before or after throwing the dice you can view individual properties and manage your own by tapping (or swiping over and releasing)
the MANAGE button.
In the management view you can swipe left or right to highlight property groups (properties of the same color) and select 
individual property. If you own all properties of the same group, you can buy habitats and settlement domes, which increase the amount of 
rent collected.
Habitats and settlement domes can also be sold to the bank. Note, however, that they are sold by half the price that they have been
purchased for.
An owned and undeveloped property (that belongs to a property group that has no other developed properties) can be mortgaged.
When under mortgage, no rent may be collected on the property.
To pay off the mortgage, you must pay the bank the price of the property increased by 10 %. 

RUNNING OUT OF CASH
When a player's balance is negative, he can not buy unowned properties or develop those he owns. Neither can he end his or her turn. 
In order to avoid bankrupcy, he must mortgage properties he owns or downgrade those already developed. He can do both on the Management screen.
If, even after mortgaging all owned properties, a player's balance is still negative, he has no other option than to surrender.
He does that by tapping the SURRENDER button.